examples/imagenet/README.md, before:

## ImageNet classification

Trains a ResNet50 model ([He *et al.*, 2016]) for the ImageNet classification task
([Russakovsky *et al.*, 2015]).

This example uses linear learning rate warmup and cosine learning rate schedule.

[He *et al.*, 2016]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385
[Russakovsky *et al.*, 2015]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0575

You can run this code and even modify it directly in Google Colab, no
installation required:

https://colab.research.google.com/github/google/flax/blob/main/examples/imagenet/imagenet.ipynb

The Colab also demonstrates how to load pretrained checkpoints from Cloud
storage at
[gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet)

### Requirements

* TensorFlow dataset `imagenet2012:5.*.*`
* `≈180GB` of RAM if you want to cache the dataset in memory for faster IO

### Supported setups

While the example should run on a variety of hardware, 
we have tested the different configurations on TPU v3-8 and 8x V100 (16GB)
and got the following results:

|          Name           | Steps  | Walltime | Top-1 accuracy |                                                                       Metrics                                                                        |                                                                               Workdir                                                                                |
| :---------------------- | -----: | :------- | :------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| TPU v3-8                | 125100 | 4.4h     | 76.37%         | [tfhub.dev](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/JwxRMYrsR4O6V6fnkn3dmg/)                                                                              | [gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/tpu](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet/tpu)                                         |
| v100_x8                 | 250200 | 13.2h    | 76.72%         | [tfhub.dev](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/venzpsNXR421XLkvvzSkqQ/#scalars&_smoothingWeight=0&regexInput=%5Eimagenet/v100_x8%24)                 | [gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/v100_x8](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet/v100_x8)                                 |
| v100_x8_mixed_precision |  62500 | 4.3h     | 76.27%         | [tfhub.dev](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/venzpsNXR421XLkvvzSkqQ/#scalars&_smoothingWeight=0&regexInput=%5Eimagenet/v100_x8_mixed_precision%24) | [gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/v100_x8_mixed_precision](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet/v100_x8_mixed_precision) |


### Preparing the dataset on Cloud

For running the ResNet50 model on imagenet dataset, 
you first need to prepare the `imagenet2012` dataset. 
Download the data from http://image-net.org/ as described in the
[tensorflow_datasets catalog](https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/catalog/imagenet2012). 
Then point the environment variable `$IMAGENET_DOWNLOAD_PATH` 
to the directory where the downloads are stored and prepare the dataset 
by running

```shell
python -c "
import tensorflow_datasets as tfds
tfds.builder('imagenet2012').download_and_prepare(
    download_config=tfds.download.DownloadConfig(
        manual_dir='$IMAGENET_DOWNLOAD_PATH'))
"
```

The contents of the directory `~/tensorflow_datasets` should be copied to your gcs bucket. Point the environment variable `GCS_TFDS_BUCKET` to your bucket and run the following command:

```shell
gsutil cp -r ~/tensorflow_datasets gs://$GCS_TFDS_BUCKET/datasets
```

### How to run on Cloud TPU



Setup the TPU VM and install the Flax dependencies on it as described 
[here](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/jax-quickstart-tpu-vm).

Set the environment variable of `GCS_TFDS_BUCKET` to your bucket on the TPU VM 
and run the model after setting `TFDS_DATA_DIR` parameter:

```shell
export TFDS_DATA_DIR=gs://$GCS_TFDS_BUCKET/datasets
python3 main.py --workdir=./imagenet_tpu --config=configs/tpu.py
```



### How to run

```shell
python main.py --workdir=./imagenet --config=configs/default.py
```

#### Overriding Hyperparameter configurations

Specify a hyperparameter configuration by the means of setting `--config` flag.
Configuration flag is defined using
[config_flags](https://github.com/google/ml_collections/tree/master#config-flags).
`config_flags` allows overriding configuration fields. This can be done as
follows:

```shell
python main.py --workdir=./imagenet_default --config=configs/default.py --config.num_epochs=100
```

#### 8 x Nvidia V100 (16GB)

```shell
python main.py \
--workdir=./imagenet_v100_x8 --config=configs/v100_x8.py
```

#### 8 x Nvidia V100 (16GB), mixed precision

```shell
python main.py \
--workdir=./imagenet_v100_x8_mixed_precision \
--config=configs/v100_x8_mixed_precision.py
```
#### How to run on Cloud GPU

See commands in [../cloud/README.md](../cloud/README.md)

### Reproducibility

Making the ImageNet classification example reproducible is WIP. 
See: [#291](https://github.com/google/flax/issues/291).

Commit message:

Adding pod commands and runs to imagenet example
PiperOrigin-RevId: 384822295

examples/imagenet/README.md, after:

## ImageNet classification

Trains a ResNet50 model ([He *et al.*, 2016]) for the ImageNet classification task
([Russakovsky *et al.*, 2015]).

This example uses linear learning rate warmup and cosine learning rate schedule.

[He *et al.*, 2016]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385
[Russakovsky *et al.*, 2015]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.0575

You can run this code and even modify it directly in Google Colab, no
installation required:

https://colab.research.google.com/github/google/flax/blob/main/examples/imagenet/imagenet.ipynb

The Colab also demonstrates how to load pretrained checkpoints from Cloud
storage at
[gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet)

### Requirements

* TensorFlow dataset `imagenet2012:5.*.*`
* `≈180GB` of RAM if you want to cache the dataset in memory for faster IO

### Supported setups

While the example should run on a variety of hardware, 
we have tested the different configurations on TPU pods like v3-32 and v2-32 as 
well as TPU v3-8 and 8x V100 (16GB)
and got the following results:

|          Name           | Steps  | Walltime | Top-1 accuracy |                                                                       Metrics                                                                        |                                                                               Workdir                                                                                |
| :---------------------- | -----: | :------- | :------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| TPU v3-32                | 125100 | 2.07h     | 76.54%         | [tfhub.dev](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/GhPHRoLzTqu7c8vynTk6bg/)                                                                              | [gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/tpu_v3_32](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet/tpu)                                         |
| TPU v2-32                | 125100 | 2.4h     | 76.67%         | [tfhub.dev](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/qBJ7T9VPSgO5yeb0HAKbIA/)                                                                              | [gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/tpu_v2_32](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet/tpu)                                         |
| TPU v3-8                | 125100 | 4.4h     | 76.37%         | [tfhub.dev](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/JwxRMYrsR4O6V6fnkn3dmg/)                                                                              | [gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/tpu](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet/tpu)                                         |
| v100_x8                 | 250200 | 13.2h    | 76.72%         | [tfhub.dev](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/venzpsNXR421XLkvvzSkqQ/#scalars&_smoothingWeight=0&regexInput=%5Eimagenet/v100_x8%24)                 | [gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/v100_x8](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet/v100_x8)                                 |
| v100_x8_mixed_precision |  62500 | 4.3h     | 76.27%         | [tfhub.dev](https://tensorboard.dev/experiment/venzpsNXR421XLkvvzSkqQ/#scalars&_smoothingWeight=0&regexInput=%5Eimagenet/v100_x8_mixed_precision%24) | [gs://flax_public/examples/imagenet/v100_x8_mixed_precision](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/flax_public/examples/imagenet/v100_x8_mixed_precision) |


### Preparing the dataset on Cloud

For running the ResNet50 model on imagenet dataset, 
you first need to prepare the `imagenet2012` dataset. 
Download the data from http://image-net.org/ as described in the
[tensorflow_datasets catalog](https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/catalog/imagenet2012). 
Then point the environment variable `$IMAGENET_DOWNLOAD_PATH` 
to the directory where the downloads are stored and prepare the dataset 
by running

```shell
python -c "
import tensorflow_datasets as tfds
tfds.builder('imagenet2012').download_and_prepare(
    download_config=tfds.download.DownloadConfig(
        manual_dir='$IMAGENET_DOWNLOAD_PATH'))
"
```

The contents of the directory `~/tensorflow_datasets` should be copied to your  
gcs bucket. Point the environment variable `GCS_TFDS_BUCKET` to your bucket and 
run the following command:

```shell
gsutil cp -r ~/tensorflow_datasets gs://$GCS_TFDS_BUCKET/datasets
```

### How to run on Cloud TPU



Setup the TPU VM and install the Flax dependencies on it as described
[here](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/jax-pods) for creating pod slices, or
[here](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/jax-quickstart-tpu-vm) for a single
v3-8 TPU.

If running on the single tpu-vm, set the environment variable of
`GCS_TFDS_BUCKET` to your bucket on the TPU VM 
and run the model after setting `TFDS_DATA_DIR` parameter:

```shell
export TFDS_DATA_DIR=gs://$GCS_TFDS_BUCKET/datasets
python3 main.py --workdir=./imagenet_tpu --config=configs/tpu.py
```
When running on pod slices, after making the TPU-VM with the size you wish, and
installing JAX, the same command must run on all the machines.
There are multiple ways to run the training on pods, one example command that 
will run on each of the pod's machines while sshing to them is:

```shell
gcloud alpha compute tpus tpu-vm ssh $your_vm_name   --zone $your_zone  
--worker=all  --command "pip install --upgrade clu; git clone 
https://github.com/google/flax.git; pip install --user -e flax; 
cd flax/examples/imagenet; export TFDS_DATA_DIR=gs://$GCS_TFDS_BUCKET/datasets; 
python3 main.py --workdir=gs://$your_bucket/imagenet --config=configs/tpu.py"
```



### How to run

```shell
python main.py --workdir=./imagenet --config=configs/default.py
```

#### Overriding Hyperparameter configurations

Specify a hyperparameter configuration by the means of setting `--config` flag.
Configuration flag is defined using
[config_flags](https://github.com/google/ml_collections/tree/master#config-flags).
`config_flags` allows overriding configuration fields. This can be done as
follows:

```shell
python main.py --workdir=./imagenet_default --config=configs/default.py 
--config.num_epochs=100
```

#### 8 x Nvidia V100 (16GB)

```shell
python main.py \
--workdir=./imagenet_v100_x8 --config=configs/v100_x8.py
```

#### 8 x Nvidia V100 (16GB), mixed precision

```shell
python main.py \
--workdir=./imagenet_v100_x8_mixed_precision \
--config=configs/v100_x8_mixed_precision.py
```
#### How to run on Cloud GPU

See commands in [../cloud/README.md](../cloud/README.md)

### Reproducibility

Making the ImageNet classification example reproducible is WIP. 
See: [#291](https://github.com/google/flax/issues/291).
